so continuing on with functions just as
with consumer supplier and predicate
there are more specific function
interfaces that include the type of the
argument and return value for example
long to int function accepts a long
argument and returns an int value int to
double function accepts an int argument and
returns a double value now we can also
chain functions together just as we
could with predicates now the chain
functions we use the and then method in
the function interface that method takes
a function as a parameter so let's
actually look at an example
now remember that we had a lambda in a
previous video that upper case the first
and last names and then concatenated
them together so let's actually do
something similar by chaining functions
we're going to uppercase the employee
named in one function and when they will
get the uppercase first name in another
function so first let's go ahead and
actually add the function that upper
cases the name so function....
....
....that just accept an employee argument
gets the name and returns an uppercase
but what about the second one well we want to
get a substring of the uppercase name in
other words we want to operate on the on
the value returned from the first
function which is exactly how the and
then method works when you chain
functions together the return value of
each function is operated on by the next
function in the chain so with that in
mind here is the function that gets the
first name so....
....
....so
that our concat and concatenate function
so lets now chain them together and
print out the result so we do another
function....
....
so basically the upper case function is
getting the entire employee name
converting it to uppercase the first name function is accepting that as a
parameter or will be passing it as a
parameter and it's returning just the
first name and as you can see chaining
functions together requires two steps
first we have to create what's called a
composed function the function that
calls the and then method will run first
and then the function pass as the
argument to and then we'll operate on
its result so we can actually chain as
many functions together as we want each
function in the chain will operate on
the last produced result and as with
any function we call the apply method to
run the compose function so when we do
that will run it and we'll see what
happens
well actually I haven't added that line yet have I so i need to add that line
let's just print out what's going to
happen so we're going to....
....
....so let's just try that and you
can see we've got John showing as the
output the function interface also
contains a compose method that works in
the opposite direction to the and then
method now the function that calls the
method is runs second
the function is passed as the argument
runs first
personally I think it's easier to think
in terms of the and then method but the
compose method is there for you
to use if you prefer it
alright so let's actually change the
example we just coded so instead of
printing out the first name lets
actually suppose we want to concatenate
the employees name and age instead and print the
result we're going to change the second
function to do that but hang on wait a
minute will need the employee object in
a second step so that we can get the age
but we also need the uppercase name
from the first step so we actually need
two arguments but function only accepts
one
well this is where the biinterface
comes in for all the interfaces we've
discussed except supplier there
are versions of the interfaces that
accept two arguments so in this case we
want to use the bifunction interface
instead of just function so that in mind lets create the function for the second
step and then we're going to type....
....
.....
.....so question now is can we chain this
function to the uppercase function well no we can't when we change functions
result of one function becomes the
argument for the next function but a bi
function has two arguments so it can't
be the second or subsequent function in
the chain
however if the bi function was the first
step then we could do it using bi
functions and then method for the same
reason that bi function has to be the
first function in the chain the bi
function interface doesn't have a
compose method so instead of chaining we
have to uppercase and
concatenate the age in two steps i'm going to
do that with string.....
....
....so we run that we should see
our first entry John Doe in uppercase
and of course also 30 being the age that
we assigned when we set up John Doe here
in line 13 now there are also
consumer and predicate interfaces that
accepts two arguments but none for
supplier because the supplier doesn't
actually accept any arguments so now
we're going to look at the unary
operator interface this is a more
specific type of function that accepts a
single argument and returns a value of
the same type as the argument so for
example long unary operator accepts
a long and returns a long all the unary
variants extend the function interface
so therefore they can be chain
together just like functions can so
let's actually create an int unary
operator that always increments its
argument by five so to do that we would
do something like....
....
....so lets see if it works
there's the answer 15 showing so notice
that rather than calling apply we are
called applies as int when using the
int unary operator so we now been
through the five groups of interfaces in
the java.util.function package
now the beginning of this walkthrough of
the java.util.function i said
that the interfaces in this package the
java.util.function package don't
have any meaning in and
of themselves so hopefully at this point
you now got a better idea of what that
means the interfaces represent
structures the lambda expressions when
we want to use a lambda expression that
tests a value and returns true false we
can use a predicate when we want to use
a lambda expression in place for method
that accepts an argument and returns a
value we can use function the interfaces
don't dictate what the lambdas must do
they're not like interfaces such as
runnable which we know represents an
object with a block of executable code
or an event handler which we know
contains code that will run when the
user interacts with the user interface
component the java.util.function
interfaces describe the arguments and
return value but not actually what the
implementations must do I'm going to
load up a little image on the screen
now showing a summary of the five
groups of interfaces in the java.util.function package
can be chained column is yes for consumer
now we didn't actually cover this but we
can chain consumers together with the
consumer . and then method consumers
don't return a value so how does that
actually work or rather than working on
the result of the previous consumer each
consumer in the chain runs using the
arguments that is passed to the accept method so
let's actually go back to java and just
look at a quick example of this
alright so we can actually type
something like.....
....
....so we run this we should see hello world
showing on the screen on the console
their is hello world down at the bottom so
remember that consumers don't return
anything so the result of the uppercase
call in consumers c1 is actually lost
each consumer in the chain is evaluated
independently of the others so there's
no real advantage in this case to chain
them together but it can be done as you
saw so what do we do if we need more
than two arguments in a lambda
expression well we can write lambda
expressions that takes many arguments
as you liked but we you can't then use
those that take more than two with any
of the interfaces in the java.util.function package the only time
it is maybe a problem is when we want to
use an API that perhaps takes one of the
interfaces as a parameter so in that
case you probably want to message you
code so that you can use a lambda that
matches the required interface alright
so that concludes our look at the java.util.function package to
see all the interfaces in the package
and the methods available in each one
just check out the documentation here
just put that on the screen there's
lots of information for you to check out
there
alright so that's the end of the video
in the next video we're going to take a
look at
streams so see you in the next video